# DengAI-Predicting-Disease-Spread

Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus. Symptoms typically begin 3 to 14 days after infection. These may include a high fever, headache, vomiting, muscle and joint pains, and a characteristic skin rash. The earliest descriptions of an outbreak date from 1779. Its viral cause and spread were understood by the early 20th century. Dengue has become a global problem since World War II, and the reported had increased significantly worldwide. In 2019, a significant increase in the number of cases was seen. It is common in more than 120 countries, mainly in Southeast Asia, South Asia, and South America. About 390 million people are infected a year, about half a million require hospital admission, and approximately 40 thousand die. Apart from eliminating the mosquitos, work is ongoing for medication targeted directly at the virus. It is classified as a neglected tropical disease. Since it is carried by mosquitoes, the transmission dynamics of dengue are related to climate variables such as temperature and precipitation. Although the relationship to climate is complex, a growing number of scientists argue that climate change is likely to produce distributional shifts that will have significant public health implications worldwide. Thus, an understanding of the relationship between climate and dengue dynamics can improve research initiatives and resource allocation to help fight life-threatening pandemics.

This project will use machine learning techniques and regression models to predict the number of dengue fever cases reported each week in San Juan and Iquitos. The host of this project has provided 3 datasets, which include the dengue train feature set, the dengue train label set, and the dengue feature test set. All of the sets are scaled and ordered in chronological order. The goal is the minimize the mean absolute error between the predicted result and the actual result.

